I lived in Chicago for almost three decades. I loved the city and still do. No matter what you see on the news, it&rsquo;s a great place to live. Then, in early 2020, COVID hit.

Our family tried harder than some. We disinfected our delivered groceries and stayed in our yard. We wore masks religiously and got vaccinated as quickly as possible, believing that we were helping the most vulnerable members of our community. We participated in mutual aid. We made our world very small.

Community, work, transit, dining, arts, theater, and festivals are what make big city problems like crime and high taxes tolerable. When we could no longer gather, and the good parts were shut down, all that remained were the problems. In that light, the city  &mdash;  my home  &mdash;  became unrecognizable to me. Staying put became unsustainable.

Eighteen months into the pandemic, we sold or gave away almost everything we owned, traded our minivan for an absurdly giant &ldquo;dually&rdquo; pickup, and bought a camper. The decision was complex and difficult, both emotionally and logistically. But our decision was hardly unique; we were one family in a giant cohort who reacted to pandemic pressures by becoming electively nomadic, spurred partly by Instagram accounts of families who had gone before us.

In my first 72 hours as a nomad, I crashed our home into a tree, tearing a hole in the roof, covered myself in sewage while emptying our tanks, and got stuck for hours trying to back out of a wrong turn down a narrow road. If we had not committed so thoroughly &mdash; if we had rented a camper to "try out" our intended lifestyle &mdash; you would not be reading this. But we were in it. And so, we grew.

I&rsquo;m sure I&rsquo;ll write in more detail about road experiences in follow-up posts. So much has happened in the three years since we woke up from the American Dream that I couldn&rsquo;t even begin to summarize it in a single post. I will say this, though: 

I own less today than I have ever owned. As a purely remote professional, I may earn less and have fewer opportunities than non-nomadic folks with my skill set. My life is sometimes complex, and our family faces hardships and risks we wouldn&rsquo;t encounter if we lived in a house.

But the trade is easy. I have very few material things to lose and no interest in material attainment for its own sake. I spend a ton of time with my family. My backyard is a national park, a beach in Mexico, or a balloon festival. The air I breathe is almost always clear and clean. I work outside most days and end many around a campfire. It&rsquo;s dark and quiet when I sleep.

There&rsquo;s community out here as well: a diaspora of other electively nomadic families. We form large and small ephemeral villages, share practical knowledge, and engage in mutual aid. Our lives intersect and diverge opportunistically and fluidly, and our children are people of the world &mdash; learning geology at Yellowstone and the Tetons, history in Philadelphia and Boston, and Spanish in San Felipe and La Las Ventanas &mdash; alongside their formal curricula. They are active, healthy, and happy.

Leaving everything we knew behind was extraordinarily difficult. But what we&rsquo;ve gained in return is&hellip; immeasurable. The freedom to live with less, to move with intention, and to connect deeply with both our surroundings and others has reshaped every facet of our lives. As a Full Time Nomad, I am no longer bound by possessions or routine. Wherever the road takes me, I am home.
