Growing up, I didn't fully appreciate what an incredible person my dad is. I don't think that's unique; I think it's common for kids to see their parents as a kind of authoritative extraterrestrial, unable to fathom the challenges of growing up in the 'modern' world. We're sold this idea by media and marketers and, as teens, we gobble it up. 

Despite an illusory generational barrier, I understood my dad was&hellip; extra. How could I not? He is a three-time US Olympic Weightlifter who held the American Record in his weight class for more than 20 years. An 8-time National Champion. A Masters World Champion in three different weight classes. Far from the macho sterotype you might expect, he is humble and uassuming. He might never tell you any of his acheivements unless you ask. His favorite game is Scrabble. He never pushed me to do anything I didn't want to do, including weightlifting. The man is, as the kids say, chill asf.

If we are fortunate when we are impressionable, we cross paths in life with someone who can credibly tell us "you can be anything you want to be." That person might be a high school coach, or a professor, a demanding first boss, or a successful entrepreneur. For my part, I won the Inspiration Lotto; that person walked through my door every night and drove me to school every morning. He tolerated me breaking wrists and ankles on my skateboard, hosted dinners for large groups of my painted and pierced friends, and tolerated me blaring Minor Threat and the Dead Kennedys in my impossible mess of a bedroom. He inspired and encouraged me by just existing and letting me exist.

I'll never be the man my father is. I'll never set sports records. But I did find a passion in software development, and though I'm far from a perfect person, I can say without reservation that I'm a good father. In fact, I'm a Rad Dad. 

Like my own Rad Dad, I try to lead by example. As a vegetarian, I demonstrate compassion towards consciousness. As a pacifist, I teach the value of resolving conflict and harm restoratively. As an anti-racist, I strive to help them to identify and understand learned bias and structural inequality, and to work against these things. I reinforce the inviolable and revokable nature of consent. Our family even has a "Consent Song: Yes means yes, no means no, stop means stop, and go means go."

It's not all didactic lessons. I support my kids who skateboard by going skateboarding with them. I hike, and bike, and play tag with them with as much energy as I can muster. I play and talk about Pok&eacute;mon with them often enough to know that a Psychic Type is going to absolutely crush a Fighting or Poison type when the cards are out. I read to them, cuddle them, watch movies with them, and even occasionally play a little Mario Kart.



